Frodo.
Who is she?
-She's an EIf.
-He's fading.
He's not going to Last.
We must get him to my father.
-I've been looking for you for two days.
-Where are you taking him?
There are five Wraiths behind you.
Where the other four are, I do not know.
What are they saying?
I do not fear them.
Arwen...
...ride hard. Don't Look back.
What are you doing?!
Those Wraiths are still out there!
Give up the halfling, She-EIf.
If you want him, come and claim him.
No. No!
Frodo, no.
Frodo, don't give in.
Not now.
What grace is given me...
...let it pass to him.
Let him be spared.
Save him.
-Where am I?
-You are in the house of Elrond.
And it is 1 0:00 in the morning
on October 24th, if you want to know.
-Gandalf!
-Yes, I'm here.
And you're lucky to be here too.
A few more hours and you
would have been beyond our aid.
But you have some strength in you,
my dear Hobbit.
What happened, Gandalf?
-Why didn't you meet us?
-I am sorry, Frodo.
I was delayed.
A friendship with Saruman
is not Lightly thrown aside.
One ill turn deserves another.
It is over.
Embrace the power of the Ring...
...or embrace your own destruction!
There is only one Lord of the Ring.
Only one who can bend it to his will.
And he does not share power.
So you have chosen death.
Gandalf? What is it?
Nothing, Frodo.
Frodo!
-Sam.
-Bless you, you're awake!
Sam has hardly Left your side.
We were that worried about you.
Weren't we, Mr. Gandalf?
By the skills of Lord Elrond,
you're beginning to mend.
Welcome to Rivendell, Frodo Baggins.
-Bilbo!
-Hello, Frodo, my lad.
Bilbo.
A Hobbit's Tale, by Bilbo Baggins.''
-This is wonderful.
-I meant to go back...
...wonder at the powers of Mirkwood...
...visit Lake-town...
...see the Lonely Mountain again.
But age, it seems,
has finally caught up with me.
I miss the Shire.
I spent all my childhood pretending
I was off somewhere else.
Off with you,
on one of your adventures.
But my own adventure turned out
to be quite different.
I'm not Like you, Bilbo.
My dear boy.
-Now, what have I forgotten?
-Packed already?
No harm in being prepared.
-I thought you wanted to see the Elves.
-I do.
-More than anything.
-I did.
It's just....
We did what Gandalf wanted, didn't we?
We got the Ring this far,
to Rivendell. And I thought...
...seeing as how you're on the mend,
we'd be off soon.
Off home.
You are right, Sam.
We did what we set out to do.
The Ring will be safe in Rivendell.
I am ready to go home.
His strength returns.
That wound will never fully heal.
He will carry it the rest of his Life.
And yet to have come so far
still bearing the Ring...
...the Hobbit has shown extraordinary
resilience to its evil.
It is a burden he should never
have had to bear.
-We can ask no more of Frodo.
-Gandalf, the enemy is moving.
Sauron's forces are massing in the East.
His Eye is fixed on Rivendell.
And Saruman, you tell me, has betrayed us.
Our list of allies grows thin.
His treachery runs deeper
than you know.
By foul craft, Saruman
has crossed Orcs with Goblin-men.
He's breeding an army
in the caverns of Isengard.
An army that can move in sunlight
and cover great distance at speed.
Saruman is coming for the Ring.
This evil cannot be concealed
by the power of the Elves.
We do not have the strength
to fight both Mordor and Isengard!
Gandalf...
...the Ring cannot stay here.
This peril belongs
to all Middle-earth.
They must decide now how to end it.
The time of the Elves is over.
My people are Leaving these shores.
Who will you Look to when we've gone?
The Dwarves?
They hide in mountains seeking riches.
They care not for the troubles of others.
It is in Men
that we must place our hope.
Men?
Men are weak.
The race of Men is failing.
The blood of Numenor is all but spent,
its pride and dignity forgotten.
It is because of Men
the Ring survives.
I was there, Gandalf.
I was there 3000 years ago...
... when Isildur took the Ring.
I was there the day
the strength of Men failed.
Isildur, hurry! Follow me.
I led Isildur into the heart
of Mount Doom...
... where the Ring was forged,
the one place it could be destroyed.
Cast it into the fire!
-Destroy it!
-No.
Isildur!
It should have ended that day,
but evil was allowed to endure.
Isildur kept the Ring.
The line of kings is broken.
There's no strength left
in the world of Men.
-They're scattered, divided, leaderless.
-There is one who could unite them.
One who could reclaim
the throne of Gondor.
He turned from that path
a Long time ago.
He has chosen exile.
You are no EIf.
Men of the South are welcome here.
-Who are you?
-I am a friend to Gandalf the Grey.
Then we are here on common purpose...
...friend.
The shards of Narsil.
The blade that cut the Ring
from Sauron's hand.
It's still sharp.
But no more than a broken heirloom.
Why do you fear the past?
You are Isildur's heir,
not Isildur himseIf.
You are not bound to his fate.
The same blood flows in my veins.
The same weakness.
Your time will come.
You will face the same evil.
And you will defeat it.
You said you'd bind yourself to me...
...forsaking the immortal life
of your people.
And to that I hold.
I would rather share
one lifetime with you...
...than face all the Ages
of this world alone.
I choose a mortal Life.
-You cannot give me this.
-It is mine to give to whom I will...
...Like my heart.
Strangers from distant lands,
friends of old...
...you've been summoned here
to answer the threat of Mordor.
Middle-earth stands upon the brink
of destruction. None can escape it.
You will unite, or you will fall.
Each race is bound to this fate,
this one doom.
Bring forth the Ring, Frodo.
So it is true.
In a dream...
...I saw the eastern sky grow dark...
...but in the West
a pale light lingered.
A voice was crying:
''Your doom is near at hand.
Isildur's Bane is found.''
Isildurs Bane.
Boromir!
Never before has any voice uttered the
words of that tongue here in Imladris.
I do not ask your pardon,
Master Elrond...
...for the Black Speech of Mordor...
...may yet be heard...
...in every corner of the West!
The Ring is altogether evil.
It is a gift.
A gift to the foes of Mordor.
Why not use this Ring?
Long has my father,
the Steward of Gondor...
...kept the forces of Mordor at bay.
By the blood of our people...
...are your lands kept safe.
Give Gondor the weapon of the enemy.
Let us use it against him.
You cannot wield it.
None of us can.
The One Ring answers to Sauron alone.
It has no other master.
And what would a Ranger know
of this matter?
This is no mere Ranger.
He is Aragorn, son of Arathorn.
You owe him your allegiance.
Aragorn.
This is Isildurs heir?
And heir to the throne of Gondor.
Gondor has no king.
Gondor needs no king.
Aragorn is right. We cannot use it.
You have only one choice.
The Ring must be destroyed.
What are we waiting for?
The Ring cannot be destroyed, Gimli,
son of Gloin...
...by any craft that we here possess.
The Ring was made in the fires
of Mount Doom.
Only there can it be unmade.
It must be taken deep into Mordor...
...and cast back into the fiery chasm
from whence it came.
One of you...
...must do this.
One does not simply walk into Mordor.
Its Black Gates are guarded
by more than just Orcs.
There is evil there
that does not sleep.
The Great Eye is ever-watchful.
It is a barren wasteland...
...riddled with fire, and ash
and dust.
The very air you breathe
is a poisonous fume.
Not with 1 0,000 men
could you do this. It is folly.
Have you heard nothing Lord Elrond
has said? The Ring must be destroyed.
And I suppose you think
you are the one to do it!
And if we fail, what then? What happens
when Sauron takes back what is his?
I will be dead before I see the Ring
in the hands of an EIf!
Never trust an EIf!
Do you not understand? While you bicker
amongst yourselves, Sauron's power grows!
None can escape it!
You'll all be destroyed!
I will take it.
I will take the Ring to Mordor.
Though...
...I do not know the way.
I will help you bear
this burden, Frodo Baggins...
...as Long as it is yours to bear.
If by my life
or death I can protect you...
...I will.
You have my sword.
And you have my bow.
And my ax.
You carry the fates
of us all, Little one.
If this is indeed
the will of the Council...
...then Gondor will see it done.
-Frodo's not going anywhere without me.
-It is hardly possible to separate you...
...even when he is summoned
to a secret Council and you are not.
We're coming too!
You'll have to send us home
tied up in a sack to stop us.
Anyway, you need people
of intelligence on this sort of...
...mission.
Quest.
Thing.
Well, that rules you out, Pip.
Nine companions.
So be it.
You shall be
the Fellowship of the Ring.
Great!
Where are we going?
In her heart, your mother knew
you'd be hunted all your Life.
That you'd never escape your fate.
The skill of the Elves
can reforge the sword of kings...
...but only you have the power
to wield it.
I do not want that power.
I have never wanted it.
You are the Last of that bloodline.
There is no other.
My old sword! Sting.
Here, take it. Take it.
-It's so light.
-Yes. Made by the Elves, you know.
The blade glows blue
when Orcs are close.
And it's times Like that, my lad,
when you have to be extra careful.
Here's a pretty thing.
Mithril.
As light as a feather,
and as hard as dragon scales.
Let me see you put it on. Come on.
My old ring.
I should very much Like...
...to hold it again, one Last time.
I'm sorry I brought this upon you,
my boy.
I'm sorry that you
must carry this burden.
I'm sorry for everything.
The Ring-bearer is setting out
on the Quest of Mount Doom.
On you who travel with him,
no oath...
...nor bond is laid to go further
than you will.
Farewell. Hold to your purpose.
May the blessings of Elves and Men...
...and all Free Folk go with you.
The Fellowship awaits the Ring-bearer.
Mordor, Gandalf, is it Left or right?
Left.
We must hold to this course, west
of the Misty Mountains, for 40 days.
If our luck holds, the Gap of Rohan
will still be open to us.
From there, our road
turns east to Mordor.
Two, one, five. Good! Very good.
Move your feet.
-You Look good, Pippin.
-Thanks.
Faster!
If anyone was to ask for my opinion,
which I note they're not...
...I'd say we were taking
the Long way 'round.
Gandalf, we could pass through
the Mines of Moria.
My cousin Balin would give us
a royal welcome.
No, I would not take the road through
Moria unless I had no other choice.
Sorry!
Get him!
-For the Shire!
-Hold him. Hold him down, Merry!
Gentlemen, that's enough.
You've got my arm!
-What is that?
-Nothing. It's just a wisp of cloud.
It's moving fast.
Against the wind.
-Crebain from Dunland!
-Hide!
-Hurry!
-Take cover!
Spies of Saruman.
The passage south is being watched.
We must take the Pass of Caradhras.
Frodo!
Boromir.
It is a strange fate that we should
suffer so much fear and doubt...
...over so small a thing.
Such a Little thing.
Boromir!
Give the Ring to Frodo.
As you wish.
I care not.
So, Gandalf, you try
to lead them over Caradhras.
And if that fails,
where then will you go?
If the mountain defeats you...
... will you risk
a more dangerous road?
There is a fell voice on the air.
It's Saruman!
He's trying to bring down the mountain!
Gandalf, we must turn back!
No!
We must get off the mountain!
Make for the Gap of Rohan,
and take the west road to my city!
The Gap of Rohan takes us
too close to Isengard!
We cannot pass over a mountain.
Let us go under it.
Let us go through the Mines of Moria.
Moria. You fear to go
into those mines.
The Dwarves delved too greedily
and too deep.
You know what they awoke
Shadow and flame.
Let the Ring-bearer decide.
We cannot stay here!
This will be the death of the Hobbits.
Frodo?
We will go through the mines.
So be it.
Frodo, come and help an old man.
How is your shoulders?
-Better than it was.
-And the Ring?
You feel its power growing, don't you?
I've felt it too.
You must be careful now.
Evil will be drawn to you
from outside the Fellowship.
And, I fear, from within.
-Who then do I trust?
-You must trust yourself.
Trust your own strengths.
-What do you mean?
-There are many powers in this world...
...for good or for evil.
Some are greater than I am.
And against some I have not yet
been tested.
The walls...
...of Moria.
Dwarf doors are invisible when closed.
Yes, Gimli, their own masters cannot find
them if their secrets are forgotten.
Why doesn't that surprise me?
Well, let's see.
Ithildin.
It mirrors only starlight
and moonlight.
It reads, ''The Doors of Durin,
Lord of Moria.
-Speak, friend, and enter.''
-What do you suppose that means?
It's simple. If you are a friend, you speak
the password and the doors will open.
Nothing's happening.
I once knew every spell
in all the tongues of Elves...
...Men and Orcs.
What are you going to do, then?
Knock your head against these doors,
Peregrin Took!
And if that does not shatter them...
...and I am allowed a Little peace
from foolish questions...
...I will try to find the opening words.
Mines are no place for a pony.
-Even one so brave as Bill.
-Bye-bye, Bill.
Go on, Bill. Go on.
Don't worry, Sam,
he knows the way home.
Do not disturb the water.
Oh, it's useless.
It's a riddle.
''Speak 'friend' and enter.''
What's the Elvish word for ''friend''?
Mellon.
Soon, Master EIf, you will enjoy
the fabled hospitality of the Dwarves.
Roaring fires, malt beer,
ripe meat off the bone!
This, my friend,
is the home of my cousin Balin.
And they call it a mine.
A mine!
This is no mine. It's a tomb.
No....
No!
Goblins.
We make for the Gap of Rohan.
We should never have come here.
Now, get out of here. Get out!
-Frodo!
-Help!
Strider!
-Get off him!
Aragorn!
Frodo!
Into the mines!
-Ligulas!
-Into the cave!
Run!
We now have but one choice.
We must face the Long dark of Moria.
Be on your guard.
There are older
and fouler things than Orcs...
...in the deep places of the world.
Quietly now. It's a four-day journey
to the other side.
Let us hope that our presence
may go unnoticed.
The wealth of Moria was not in gold...
...or jewels...
...but mithril.
Bilbo had a shirt of mithril rings
that Thorin gave him.
-Oh, that was a kingly gift.
-Yes.
I never told him...
...but its worth was greater than
the value of the Shire.
Pippin.
I have no memory of this place.
-Are we Lost?
-No.
-I think we are.
-Gandalf's thinking.
-Merry?
-What?
I'm hungry.
-There's something down there.
-It's Gollum.
-Gollum?
-He's been following us for three days.
-He escaped the dungeons of Barad-dur?
-Escaped...
...or was set loose.
Now the Ring has brought him here.
He will never be rid of his need for it.
He hates and loves the Ring,
as he hates and loves himseIf.
Smeagol's Life is a sad story.
Yes, Smeagol he was once called.
Before the Ring found him.
Before it drove him mad.
It's a pity Bilbo didn't kill him
when he had the chance.
Pity?
It is pity that stayed Bilbo's hand.
Many that Live deserve death.
Some that die deserve Life.
Can you give it to them, Frodo?
Do not be too eager
to deal out death and judgment.
Even the very wise
cannot see all ends.
My heart tells me that Gollum has some
part to play yet, for good or ill...
...before this is over.
The pity of Bilbo
may rule the fate of many.
I wish the Ring had never come to me.
I wish none of this had happened.
So do all who Live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide.
All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us.
There are other forces at work in this
world, Frodo, besides the will of evil.
Bilbo was meant to find the Ring.
In which case,
you also were meant to have it.
And that is an encouraging thought.
It's that way.
-He's remembered.
-No.
But the air doesn't smell
so foul down here.
If in doubt, Meriadoc,
always follow your nose.
Let me risk a Little more light.
Behold...
...the great realm
and Dwarf-city of Dwarrowdelf.
There's an eye opener, and no mistake.
Gimi!
No!
Oh, no.
No.
''Here lies Balin...
...son of Fundin...
...Lord of Moria.''
He is dead, then.
It's as I feared.
We must move on. We cannot linger.
''They have taken the bridge
and the second hall.
We have barred the gates...
...but cannot hold them for Long.
The ground shakes.
Drums...
...drums in the deep.
We cannot get out.
A Shadow moves in the dark.
They are coming.''
Fool of a Took!
Throw yourself in next time,
and rid us of your stupidity.
Frodo!
Orcs.
Get back! Stay close to Gandalf!
They have a cave-troll.
Let them come!
There is one Dwarf yet in Moria
who still draws breath.
I think I'm getting the hang of this.
Frodo!
Aragorn! Aragorn!
Oh, no.
He's alive.
I'm all right. I'm not hurt.
You should be dead.
That spear would have skewered
a wild boar.
I think there's more to this Hobbit
than meets the eye.
Mithril.
You are full of surprises,
Master Baggins.
To the Bridge of Khazad-dum!
This way!
What is this new devilry?
A Balrog.
A demon of the ancient world.
This foe is beyond any of you.
Run!
Quickly!
Gandalf.
Lead them on, Aragorn.
The bridge is near.
Do as I say!
Swords are no more use here.
Gandalf!
Merry! Pippin!
Sam!
Nobody tosses a Dwarf.
Not the beard!
Steady.
Hold on!
Hang on!
Lean forward!
Steady.
Come on!
Now!
Over the bridge!
Fly!
You cannot pass!
Gandalf!
I am a servant of the Secret Fire,
wielder of the flame of Anor.
The dark fire will not avail you,
flame of Udun!
Go back to the Shadow.
You shall not pass!
-No! No!
-Gandalf!
Fly, you fools!
No!
Aragorn!
Legolas, get them up.
Give them a moment, for pity's sake!
By nightfall, these hills will
be swarming with Orcs.
We must reach the woods of Lothlorien.
Come, Boromir. Legolas.
Gimli, get them up.
On your feet, Sam.
Frodo?
Frodo!